# **COMMS** Library Licenses
The [COMMS library](https://github.com/arobenko/comms_champion#comms-library) is licensed under
the classic **GPLv3 / Commercial** dual licensing scheme. The
source code is available for anyone to use as long as the derivative work
remains open source with compatible license. **Download** and **try** it! 
If it works as expected and commercial closed source license is required for the final
product, please refer to the prices below. 

| License Type | Details | Price (USD) |
|--------------------------------------|
|**Evaluation**|Limited to a single binary application. No more than one license per-company.| Free |
|**Application**|Limited to a single binary application.| $500 |
|**Product**| Limited to a single end-product. Allowed to contain multiple binary applications.| $1000 |
|**Product-Line**| Limited to multiple generations of the same end-product.| $1500 |
|**Development-Site**| Applicable to **any** product designed and developed at specific location. | $2500 |
|**SDK**| Applicable to organizations which intend to develop private SDK / library using the [COMMS library](https://github.com/arobenko/comms_champion#comms-library) and distribute it as a way to communicate to their devices. In other words, this is purchasing a license for all their existing and future clients.| $5000 |

Every license is 
- nonexclusive
- nontransferable
- irrevocable 
- **NOT** locked to the specific version of the 
[COMMS library](https://github.com/arobenko/comms_champion#comms-library)
(upgrade and downgrade as you will)
- royalty-free (pay only once for the right to use in closed source 
products).

Also all the licenses are upgradeable. At first, it is recommended to obtain
the **Evaluation** license for free. If it works for you and you would like to use it
again, pay $500 and get additional **Application** license. In case you need
a third license for the same product, pay $500 more (totals to $1000 payment altogether) and
get the **Product** license. If you start development of the next generation 
product within the same product line, pay $500 more to get **Product-Line** 
license (totals to $1500 payment altogether), and so on.

# Bug Bounty Program
The [COMMS library](https://github.com/arobenko/comms_champion#comms-library) 
is very robust and very well tested. However, it is physically not possible to 
check every possible combination of fields, messages, and transport framing.
Every person/organisation that reports a bug (real and acknowledged) in the 
[COMMS library](https://github.com/arobenko/comms_champion#comms-library) 
and/or in code generated by the **commsdsl2comms** tool is eligible for
a license **upgrade** for free.

# GPLv2 Community Projects
Due to the [fact](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-faq.en.html#v2v3Compatibility) 
that **GPLv3** and **GPLv2** being incompatible licenses the
usage of **GPLv3** licensed COMMS library inside an existing **GPLv2** licensed
community project is allowed with author's explicit permission.

# How to Obtain a License
At this stage please refer to [CONTACT]({{ site.baseurl }}/contact/) page and send an e-mail
with a request to obtain specific license. You'll get a response with
available payment options. After the payment is performed you'll be sent
a signed PDF with the terms of the granted license, which you should keep together
with your sources.
